# W-Shingles Document Similarity Analysis

This project implements and analyzes the W-Shingling technique to calculate the similarity between documents. It includes scripts for data processing, similarity calculation, benchmarking, and result visualization.

-----

## File Structure

A brief overview of the key directories:

  - `w-shingles/`: The root directory of the project.
  - `article_dump/`: Contains raw and processed data used in the analysis.
  - `logs/`: Stores timing logs generated during the execution of the experiments by `benchmark.py`.
  - `plots/`: Contains the output charts and graphs generated by `analyze.py`.
  - `results/`: Stores the final output files from the analysis generated by run.py for all `(w, λ)` pair.

-----

## Prerequisites

Before running the project, ensure you have Python installed along with the necessary libraries.

You can install the required libraries using pip:

### MacOS/Linux Platforms
```bash
pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```

### Windows
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
-----

## How to Run

Follow these steps in order from your terminal in the `w-shingles` directory to run the full analysis.

### 1\. Run the Preprocessing Pipeline

This script prepares and processes the raw data into a format suitable for analysis and corrects all the irregularities found in the corpus at time of collection.

```bash
python3 pipeline.py
```

### 2\. Execute the Main Experiment

This script runs the core document similarity calculations. It will generate the plots for entire `full_corpus_cleaned` generated by pipeline.

```bash
python3 run.py
```

### 3\. Run the Benchmark

This script measures the performance. It logs the time it takes to calculate the shingles of size w and the time taken to compute the similarity score and stores the results in `logs/`.

```bash
python3 benchmark.py
```

### 4\. Analyze the Results

This script reads the timing data from the `logs/` directory and generates plots visualizing the results.

```bash
python3 analyze.py
```

-----

## Expected Output

After running `analyze.py` and `run.py`, you will find two plots saved in the `plots/` directory and a `results/` directory respectively with plots for all `(w, λ)` pair:

1.  **`shingle_generation_timing_barplot.png`**: A bar plot showing the total time taken to generate shingles, grouped by shingle size (`w`).
2.  **`similarity_time_vs_lambda_log_scale.png`**: A line plot showing the relationship between similarity calculation time and the `λ` parameter, with a logarithmic scale for the time axis.